# Kickstarter-Analysis
UCBE Data Analytics: Performing analysis on Kickstarter data to detect trends

## Goals:
The primary goal's parameters are 1: Fever will be performed in the United States, 2: Louise estimated a budget greater than or equal to 10,000 USD to cover operating costs. The secondary goal's parameters are: Produce and perform a musical in the United Kingdom, 2: Louise estimated a budget of 4,000 GBP.
  
## Primary Goal Analysis (See Pt. 3 US Descriptive Statistics):
The limiting factor placed by Louise is the location and the budget. However, Louise's budget projection of greater than or equal to 10,000 USD is not required. Statistical analysis shows most successful American plays had a mean goal of less than or equal to $5,000, whereas most failed plays had a higher goal of around $10,000 or less. Successful American plays correlated with more substantial pledges and more backers, whereas failed ones had considerably fewer pledges and backers. Failed campaigns did not last as long in days compared to successful ones. Marketing American plays fell into two categories: spotlights and staff picks. While Kickstarter staff did not choose many failed campaigns, Kickstarter staff were unable to identify the majority of plays that would become successful. The spotlight metric is a better measure of potential success. Kickstarter spotlighted all successful campaigns, whereas all failed campaigns were not.
  
## Primary Goal Conclusion:
Louise needs to use cost-cutting measures so her play's budget is reduced to $5,000 or less while at the same time, not decreasing the quality of "Fever." "Fever" should be spotlighted on Kickstarter so that it reaches as many potential backers as it can. The succesful campaigns had a higher median average donation versus the failed campaigns. Louise should look into what causes higher donation amounts. She might want to look into if suggested donations amounts have an impact as well as the overall perceived quality of the play.
  
## Secondary Goal Analysis (See Pt. 3 UK Descriptive Statistics): 
The limiting factors placed by Louise for her musical is location and budget. Louise wants to produce and perform a play in the United Kingdom, and she has estimated the budget to be precisely 4,000 GBP. Analysis of British musicals showed the same characteristics as American plays. Successful musicals had a smaller mean and median goal amount compared to failed musicals. Louise should cut her budget to 3,000 GBP or less. Successful musicals had a higher number of backers and had greater pledged amounts compared to failed campaigns. While successful musical campaigns did have a shorter duration range compared to failed campaigns, there is little difference between the mean and median duration of successful and failed campaigns. Again spotlights were a better determiner of success rather than Kickstarter staff picks. Successful campaigns had a higher average donation amount compared to failed campaigns.

## Secondary Goal Conclusion:
Louise needs to determine how to reduce her British musical's budget to 3,000 GBP or less without sacrificing the quality of her musical. Louise should ensure Kickstarter spotlights the musical to gain the public's interest and gain the needed backers to fund her play. As with her play "Fever," Louise should look further into a suggested donation amount to get a high average donation amount to reacher the required funding. 
